Prediciting wildfire spread is essential for diaster preparedness. Currently, most literature on wildfire risk assessment centers around using correlative models to predict regions with high risk of wildfire spread. We develop a set of causal models to predict wildfire next day spread in the continental United States. First we compare our causal models to the current correlation based models to understand how well our models performs. Next we select the models with the best performance to understand how different environmental variables affect the risk of wildfire spread. 
Finally, we supplement our historical dataset with future climate feature predictions from current climate models, to compare potential next day wildfire spread under potential future conditions, using both our model and previous correlational models. 
Additionally, we conduct various interventions on the system to estimate the ways in which corrective actions could affect wildfire risk amongst all the top performing causal models to derive both upper and lower bounds on how intervention of different kinds relate to the risk of wildfire spread. With reference to data on project costs, we determine the most cost effective ways to reduce the risk of wildfire spread.

Our paper only models risk as a linear function of the variables. Further research can be used along with domain knowledge to determine which variables have non-linear effects on the risk of wildfires. To this effect, our model is intended to provide a first order estimate of the effect of interventions on the risk of wildfires. 

Data: Next Day Wildfire Spread: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9840400
    "This “Next Day Wildfire Spread” dataset is a curated, largescale, multivariate dataset of historical wildfires over nearly a decade across the United States"
